Question 1 
1. What is the difference in the definition of a heuristic value for a game state, and for a state in A*
search? What properties make a heuristic in either situation ‘good’? (3 points total)

Game State:
A* Search: When you have a goal state

state action pari



Question 2
1. Note that Pacman will have suicidal tendencies when playing in situations where death is imminent. Why do you think this is the case? Briefly explain in one or two sentences. (2 points total)

Because there is no solution to the 


2. Consider an evaluation function that returns the square of a state’s true minimax value. 

Consider three cases:
(i) In planning a move (or strategy) for a certain state S, the agent does not hit any terminal state.
(ii) In planning a move (or strategy) for a certain state S, the agent only hits a terminal state.
(iii) In planning a move (or strategy) for a certain state S, the agent sometimes hits the terminal state.

(Quesiton is Ambiguous)
(a) Will the search result in the same strategy in cases (i) and (ii)? [Same/Not Same] (1 point)
Same

(b) Will the search result in the same strategy in cases (i) and (iii)? [Same/Not Same] (1 point)
Same

(c) Will the search result in the same strategy in cases (ii) and (iii)? [Same/Not Same] (1 point)
Same





Question 3
1. You should notice a speed-up compared to your MinimaxAgent. Consider a game tree constructed
for our Pacman game, where b is the branching factor and where depth is greater than d. Say a
minimax agent (without alpha-beta pruning) has time to explore all game states up to and including
those at level d. At level d, this agent will return estimated minimax values from the evaluation
function.

(a) In the best case scenario, to what depth would alpha-beta be able to search in the same amount
of time? (1 point total)

(b) In the worst case scenario, to what depth would alpha-beta be able to search in the same amount
of time? How might this compare with the minimax agent without alpha-beta pruning? (2
points total)

No pruning


2. True or False: Consider a game tree where the root node is a max agent, and we perform a minimax
search to terminals. Applying alpha-beta pruning to the same game tree may alter the minimax value
of the root node. (1 point total)

False

